Teradata is committed to protecting the environment and the health and safety of its employees, contractors and vendors as well as the communities in which it operates. As part of that commitment, Teradata has partnered with Bureau Veritas (BV), a global Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) consulting firm, to develop a worldwide EHS program. This program outlines a pragmatic approach to implementing basic environmental, health and safety procedures within our facilities and complying with regulatory requirements.
The individual EHS policy and procedures are based on established, well-recognized regulatory requirements that can be globally applied to every employee, regardless of facility. The EHS team, comprised of individuals from Legal, Real Estate, Security and Bureau Veritas, solicited input from 140 of BV’s international offices as well as Teradata’s Human Resources and Legal professionals seeking additional input on country-specific requirements that are more stringent than the regulatory requirements we considered. As additional requirements are identified, country-specific policies and procedures will be created or modified.
The Team Safety Handbook is an overview of Teradata’s EHS program. There are two components to the EHS program.

%%1. Policy CMP601 - the EHS Management System (EHSMS) which explains the overall EHS program. A summary of CMP601 is included in this communication.
%%2. EHS101 – 119 are standard operating procedures (SOPs) which contain the guidelines and procedures to be followed for specific areas of EHS.
The successful implementation of this program requires each Teradata location to have a designated Site EHS Coordinator. This person will serve as the primary contact for EHS matters and “take charge” of the facility should an emergency situation arise.
Oversight of Teradata’s EHS program falls under Bruce Langos’ Business Operations Group. Timothy Kiggins has been appointed as Teradata’s Corporate EHS Contact and will serve as the liaison with each facility’s Site EHS Coordinator.
All Teradata employees and contractors are required to comply with CMP601 and its related SOPs. This team safety handbook serves as a training guide. It provides an overview of the program but does not replace the need to ensure complete compliance by reading the Policy and SOPs. These documents are posted on Teradata’s intranet under Policies and Procedures